We often hear that access to computers and especially broadband is a k
ey element to helping close the digital divide that still gapes in our
 nation. There's another, less visible frontier - one that's arguably 
more important - in the field of computer science, where there is a fr
ightening disparity in the number of minorities in the industries driv
ing our economy and innovative growth. When we look at the breakdown o
f computer scientists in the United States, only 6 percent are African
 Americans and 5 percent are Hispanics. That means if you gathered 100
 computer scientists in a room, you'd be looking at a sea of mostly wh
ite faces. Yet, these are the jobs on which our current and future eco
nomy relies. The gap largely comes from lack of access to STEM and com
puter science education by minority and economically disadvantaged stu
dents, a trend that urgently needs to change. We are making the effort
 to do so at Chavez High School, a campus community on the city's Sout
heast Side, where 98 percent of students are minorities and 80 percent
 are enrolled in free or reduced lunch. Our vision for improving acces
s to computer science education has led to pioneering the use of compu
ter science (CS), design thinking and coding as approaches to spark st
udent motivation and overall academic performance - all the while tran
scending language and socioeconomic barriers. Our effort is important 
not just for Chavez students. If we are successful, our experience can
 be a model for our still largely CS-illiterate nation. Throughout the
 Houston Independent School District, many economically disadvantaged 
students don't have access to the internet or computers at home, makin
g our responsibility to provide access at school even more critical. T
o that end, HISD has been a leader with its "one-to-one" laptop progra
m, which provides every high school student with a laptop to use for l
earning at school and at home. Computing literacy is no longer a luxur
y or an extracurricular skill. It's the new literacy of our economy an
d society. CS education should be woven into all middle and high schoo
l curriculum. At Chavez, we are working to ensure all 800 freshmen tak
e computer programming courses where they learn CS, software engineeri
ng, video game design and coding. We didn't need to hire a fleet of co
mputer scientists for this; Chavez teachers are learning CS alongside 
their students. If equality of access can be achieved at a school like
 Chavez here in Houston - the fourth-largest city in America, and the 
most racially and ethnically diverse - then there is no excuse for the
 rest of the country. CS education strengthens students' analytical, p
roblem solving, interpersonal and collaborative process skills - neces
sary for college-level studies on campus and online, for securing an i
nternship and a full-time job across all industries, and also for succ
eeding in the new digital innovation economy. We must ensure that ever
y student in Houston, and in Texas, has equal access to quality CS edu
cation, which is required for 21st-century success. Achieving that acc
ess will take leadership in policy and curriculum, and the commitment 
of lawmakers and school administrators to resources and training. Ther
e is a bright spot on the horizon, with a push in Congress for new com
puter science education funding. A coalition of Democratic lawmakers i
s urging appropriators to fund new competitive grants to help school d
istricts expand their computer science offerings, especially for stude
nts from underrepresented communities, according to Politico. The need
 to boost computer science education in the U.S. should not be a polit
ical issue; the economic imperative is clear, and our work here in Hou
ston can be a model for other schools. This last sentences to fill it.